[[Social Engineering]]  refers to means of either gathering information from someone or getting them to perform some action for the threat actor. It can also be referred to as ‘hacking the human’. A threat actor might use social engineering to gather intelligence as reconnaissance in preparation for an intrusion or to effect an actual intrusion by obtaining account credentials or persuading the target to run malware. There are many diverse social engineering strategies. 

To illustrate the the concept consider the following scenarios:
- A threat actor creates an executable file that prompts a network user for their password and then records whatever the user inputs. The attacker then emails the executable file to the user with the story that thee user must open the file and log on to the network again to clear up some login problems the organization has been experiencing that morning. After the user compiles, the attacker now has access to their network credentials.
-  A threat actor contacts the help desk pretending to be a remote sales representative who needs assistance setting up remote access. Through a series of phone calls, the attacker obtains the name/address of the remote access server and login credentials, in addition to the phone numbers for remote access and for accessing the organization’s private phone and voice-mail system.
- A threat actor triggers a fire alarm and then slips into the building during the confusion and attaches a monitoring device to the network port. 